So, as of right now, my opening scene is still the same. I sense there’s still more specificity and tweaking I can do with it but for now, it is what it is. In these opening scenes, I’m trying to establish what will be the ongoing conflicts for Harrison and Katelyn as they grow apart. I switched Candace to the older sister so it’s like a “why am I always taking care of you” thing because I’m trying to use the vagina scene as a guidepost for how important their relationship is as sisters and how to build to that point. I’m using the vagina scene in general because this play doesn’t really feel like “me” at all, and if I had to pick one scene that is the most like “me” in tone and subject, I’d pick that scene so generally that whole thing is important going forward in the editing process. But then, part of me wants to let go of trying to make it “me” because what I want to do with it and where I want it to go clearly isn’t working right now so maybe I have to leave my body for a hot minute and write it as a completely different person with no significant involvement in this process in order to do the work that actually has to get done. The fight scene is completely rewritten. I’m actually going back to my excerpts to use some stuff that I originally identified as something that I wanted to cut. I think I was misled by the thought that if something is going to end an eight year long relationship, it’s going to have to be something scream-y and upsetting. But I’m trying to make it quieter and lean into the thing with the ring because I also think that’s a big part of Katelyn’s psychology. The whole thing has to be reeled in big time. I’m playing with the idea of the first scene with Harrison after the break being with a female friend instead of being with Nora. I still want Nora to be a person in his life, but I was thinking about Celeste’s not that the bathroom setting is a place where grungy hookups happen and then I started wondering, what if one of Harrison’s best friends from college was low key in love with him and now is her chance to make a move and then he has to rebuff her or will he. I mean certainly, that character (name is Melissa as of now) would be an asshole and kind of an opportunistic predator, but honestly, who doesn’t love those? So I’m working through that idea of his narrative a bit. He feels pretty solid for me now. I still haven’t decided if these two should even end up together in the end so I’m pretty aimless about where I’m trying to go and what it’s supposed to accomplish. I have absolutely zero direction and I keep changing my mind. I’ve been thinking that maybe I’ll just kill them both because they’re awful people and I’m really done with trying to make them work. I’m only half kidding about that. I’m having a hard time positioning Katelyn in the second act because I want her to be more active than Harrison and really earn the vagina scene and I feel like it’s all there but for some murky reason I’m having a hard time uncovering it right now. It’s somewhere in the idea of self-discovery with Candace, the job, the ring, Candace, job, ring, Candace, job, ring. I thought that the ring might be the strongest thing and Katelyn’s issues about marriage and what she thinks it is versus what it really is. But I’m discovering more about her in relation to Candace. Because I’m realizing that Katelyn has some real issues with dependency and co-dependent relationships. She has an estranged, dysfunctional relationship with her older sister and when she leaves Harrison she goes and mines that sister thing so that she can have someone new to take care of her. So where Katelyn WANTS to think of herself as a completely unattached, independent person, her own lifestyle and emotional needs tether her more to other people than any ring ever could. So, with that in mind, Katelyn can do one of two things: Firstly, she could continue to regress into herself and become the most base of her personality. To put it in a Freudian way: get id as fuck. In doing so, she would try to manipulate Candace more and rely on her sister more heavily. She might even try to return to Harrison all weepy and whatnot. Basically, doing that thing emotionally unstable people do to their exes. But in this pathetic play, I think that’s just a little too pathetic for me to get completely on board with. Or secondly, she could realize that she’s not functioning how she believes she is, have a personal crisis, and pursue change. The thing is, I need that change to be in service of her and not of anyone else. So what does she want? I don’t know, she doesn’t know, and it’s all a big mess. I feel like she might want meaning, which would mean that she might quit her job earlier instead of at the end, and do something that would allow her to feel more useful or happy. She’s a micromanager, so she take someone or something under her wing and decide that they’ll be her new organization project. That sounds like something she would do. An under-utilized tension for her is she believes that she might be pregnant for most of the second act so what does that do to her? It would probably make her want to seize more control over people in her life because a baby is not in her plan. I think I’m going to opt for the second choice here, but I’ll write several versions of both until I get it right.