It was a hot, humid day, but I was excited. 
This was one of my favorite days o’ the year! I put on my sweater and my scarf. But then I took off my scarf and put on my lucky scarf. I was all set. 
I walked out the door. I was ready to cycle over melons. First, I picked up my cycling gear. It was a small metal circle with wavy ridges on the sides. 
I think that it is made of stainless steel. I put it in my lucky scarf’s secret pocket. Then, I found my cycle. It was green with orange dots. I love carrots. I mounted my cycle and pedaled to the arena. I spit on all of my competitors as the ancient sign of respect. I barely had enough spit for all five people! 
By the end of the respect ceremony, I was all wet. It felt good. Everyone went to the starting point. It was this little red dot on the ground. 
It didn’t have room for all of us to go to it, so we just clustered there in a mess of people and cycles. The whistle blew. Well, the whistle didn’t actually blow itself, but someone else blew the whistle. Not just some random person, though, they were the designated whistle blower. Well, they did more than just blow the whistle, but just then they were the whistle blower. Oh well. Everyone on the starting point began to cycle. 
It was a little tedious at first because everyone had been in a jumble. But we straightened out. Then came the best part. Well, not yet. I still had to take seven breathes, have my heart beat, my brain tell my muscles to move the cycle, my hands to change gears, my mouth to blink eleven times, my nose to taste, my eyes to hear, my ears to see, all that fun stuff. Well, now is the best part. The cycle ride began to get bumpy. 
I mean, the ride didn’t literally get bumpy, but it physically got bumpy. I was bumping up and down with the cycle in short succession. I looked down. Well, I didn’t need to look down. I knew what was happening. I was cycling over melons. I’m not sure what type of melons they were. I think that they were cantaloupe. 
That kind of makes sense even though the name ‘cantaloupe’ doesn’t have ‘melon’ in it. Watermelon does, though. But these weren’t watermelons, unless they had been genetically changed to be orange. About the orange, the stuff that came out of the melons was orange. 
That’s why I think it was cantaloupe. Cantaloupes are orange … right? It’s either that or that honey-something one. I want to say honeymoon, but I know that that isn’t right. Well, when your tires rolled over the melons, they would squish open and juice would come out. Well, it wasn’t my tires, it was my cycle’s tires. 
I mean, people don’t usually have tires unless they are genetically changed or something. Oh well. I don’t think that I am genetically changed. 
Well, I was still cycling over the melons. I kept cycling. Yah, well, I was cycling. A lot. I like cycling. 
Well, that’s the whole point I was in this race so I guess you gathered that already. I forgot what happens next. Too bad for all you guys who wanted to know what happened. See you later. TGIF. Yay. Toot. Bye.